Add documentation for aggregation (#122)
glotzerlab/signac-docs: docs/source/aggregation.rst

.. _aggregation:

===========
Aggregation
===========

This chapter provides information about the passing aggregates of jobs to operation functions.

.. _aggregator_definition:

aggregator
==========

> An :class:`~flow.aggregator` is used as a decorator for an operation function which acts as an entry point to define the type of aggregation to perform while submitting or running the operation function.

Reviewer: Could you try to rephrase the definition? I guess we don't have to be limited to one sentence, and I don't quite follow which "entry point" you're referring to. Can we also use it on multiple operation functions?

Author: Tried resolving here: https://github.com/glotzerlab/signac-docs/pull/122/files#diff-d053cd842dd6fe746188c4339762f7e336b763b94d513473d65900b9836a09f0R15

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    @aggregator()
    @Project.operation
    def op1(*jobs):
        pass

    @Project.operation
    def op2(job):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

> By default, if :class:`~flow.aggregator` is used as a decorator, aggregate of all the jobs present in the project will be created.

Reviewer: This is a bit ambiguous. 
```suggestion
If :class:`~flow.aggregator` is used with the default arguments, an aggregate of all the jobs present in the project will be created.
```

> In the above example, ``op1`` can be referred to as an *aggregate operation* where all the jobs present in the project are passed as arbitraty arguments (or ``*args``) and ``op2`` is a *normal operation* where only a single job is passed as a parameter.

Reviewer 2: I think mentioning the fact that all the functions (not sure if all, but definitely most?) used by the operation, such as functions of post and pre conditions, now require passing of `*jobs` instead of a `job`.

Author: Tried resolving here: https://github.com/glotzerlab/signac-docs/pull/122/files#diff-d053cd842dd6fe746188c4339762f7e336b763b94d513473d65900b9836a09f0R41

Selecting jobs for aggregation
------------------------------

**signac-flow** allows users to selectively choose which jobs to pass into operation functions.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator(select=lambda job: job.sp.temperature > 0)
    @Project.operation
    def op6(job1, job2):
        pass

.. _aggregate_id:

Aggregate ID
============

Similar to the concept of a job id, an aggregate id is a unique hash identifying an aggregate of jobs.
The aggregate id is sensitive to the order of the jobs in the aggregate.

.. note::

    The id of an aggregate containing one job is that job's id.

In order to distinguish between aggregate id and a job id, for an aggregate of more than one job the aggregate id of that aggregate will always have a prefix ``agg-``.

Users can generate the aggregate id of an aggregate using :meth:`flow.get_aggregate_id`.

.. tip::

    Users can also pass an aggregate id to the ``--job-id`` command-line flag provided by **signac-flow** in ``run``, ``submit``, and ``exec``.

.. _aggregation_with_flow_groups:

Aggregation with FlowGroups
===========================

> In order to associate aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a ``group_aggregator`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`. By default, no aggregation takes place for a :py:class:`FlowGroup`.

Reviewer: For the last setence, do you mean that `FlowGroup` operates on all jobs and does not generate aggregates by default?

Author: Yes, since aggregation is implemented in a way that maintains backwards compatibility, the default behaviour of everything is similar to "pre-aggregation" phase of signac-flow.

.. note::

    Currently, **signac-flow** only allows single :class:`~flow.aggregator` per group, i.e., all the operations present in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will be using the same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object.

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    group = Project.make_group('agg-group', group_aggregator=aggregator())

    @group
    @aggregator()
    @Project.operation
    def op1(*jobs):
        pass

    @group
    @Project.operation
    def op2(*jobs):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

> In the above example, when the group ``agg-group`` is executed, all the jobs in the project are passed as arbitrary arguments for ``op1`` and ``op2``. But if only ``op2`` is executed, only a single job is passed as a parameter.

Reviewer: This last sentence is also a bit confusing to me (probably because I'm still not very familiar with `aggregation`). Users might be wondering if a job is randomly chosen and passed in as a parameter. I assume you mean when used alone, `op2` operates on a single-job basis, but still iterates over all jobs? (Correct me if I'm wrong)

Author: In the above example, `op1` have a default aggregator associated with it, `op2` doesn't have any aggregator associated with it, and the group `agg-group` (which contains both `op1` and `op2`) has a default aggregaot associated with it.
Here is the detailed explaination of how these will get executed

1. `python project.py -o agg-group` -> all jobs will get aggregated. So `op1` and `op2` will run once and the argument passed will be the aggregate of all jobs.
2. `python project.py -o op1` -> all jobs will get aggregated and `op1` will run once and the argument passed will be the aggregate of all jobs.
3. `python project.py -o op2` -> No aggregation will take place. Every job in the project will be passed as an argument individually to `op2`.

Does this explaination make the example more clear?

Author: Tried making it more clear here: https://github.com/glotzerlab/signac-docs/pull/122/files#diff-d053cd842dd6fe746188c4339762f7e336b763b94d513473d65900b9836a09f0R176

Reviewer: Your explanation here is clear, but still in the documentation it's a bit confusing. What I was trying to get at is that the sentence:

> only a single job is passed as a parameter

is not clear enough. I think this is also related to @DomFijan's comment on adding docs for `job` vs `*jobs`

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupby('temperature')
    @Project.operation
    def op3(*jobs):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated based on the state point **temperature**.
So, all the jobs having the same value of **temperature** in their state point will be aggregated together.

Groups Of
---------

:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` allows users to aggregate jobs by generating aggregates of a given size.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2)
    @Project.operation
    def op4(job1, job2=None):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated in groups of 2 and hence, up to two jobs will be passed as arguments at once.

.. note::

    In case the number of jobs in the project is odd, there will be one aggregate containing only a single job and hence users should be careful while passing non-default arguments in an *aggregate operation*.

Sorting jobs for aggregation
----------------------------

> **signac-flow** allows users to define the sorting order of jobs before creating the aggregates with the help of ``sort_by`` parameter and the sorting order can be defined with the help of ``sort_ascending`` parameter.

Author: Writing "sorting order" in both the lines looks confusing to me. Can we make it like, _"Aggregators allow users to sort jobs before creating an aggregate with the `sort_by` parameter. The sorting order can be defined with the `sort_ascending` parameter."_

> **signac-flow** allows users to define the sorting order of jobs before creating the aggregates with the help of ``sort_by`` parameter and the sorting order can be defined with the help of ``sort_ascending`` parameter.

Author: @bdic I'll commit the suggested changes for now, we can reiterate on this.

> **signac-flow** allows users to define the sorting order of jobs before creating the aggregates with the help of ``sort_by`` parameter and the sorting order can be defined with the help of ``sort_ascending`` parameter.

Reviewer 3: Yes, your suggestion is good!

By default, when no ``sort_by`` parameter is specified, the order of the jobs will be decided by the order in which the jobs are iterated in a **signac** project.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2, sort_by='temperature', sort_ascending=False)
    @Project.operation

>     def op5(job1, job2):

Reviewer 3: Do we need to use `*jobs` or `job2=None` to support a final aggregate with one job?
(I also worry that showing examples with `job1, job2` will be more confusing than `*jobs`.)

Author: Since we've made our point of using non default arguments carefully, I think we should go with `*jobs` here.

        pass

.. note::

>     In the above example, all the jobs will be sorted by the state point parameter ``temperature`` in descending order and then be aggregated as groups of 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In the above example, all the jobs will be sorted by the state point parameter ``"temperature"`` in descending order and then be aggregated as groups of 2.
```

Selecting jobs for aggregation
------------------------------

**signac-flow** allows users to selectively choose which jobs to pass into operation functions.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator(select=lambda job: job.sp.temperature > 0)
    @Project.operation

>     def op6(job1, job2):

Reviewer 3: We don't expect this to return two jobs.
```suggestion
    def op6(*jobs):
```

        pass

.. _aggregate_id:

Aggregate ID
============

Similar to the concept of a job id, an aggregate id is a unique hash identifying an aggregate of jobs.
The aggregate id is sensitive to the order of the jobs in the aggregate.

.. note::

    The id of an aggregate containing one job is that job's id.

In order to distinguish between aggregate id and a job id, for an aggregate of more than one job the aggregate id of that aggregate will always have a prefix ``agg-``.

Users can generate the aggregate id of an aggregate using :meth:`flow.get_aggregate_id`.

.. tip::

    Users can also pass an aggregate id to the ``--job-id`` command-line flag provided by **signac-flow** in ``run``, ``submit``, and ``exec``.

.. _aggregation_with_flow_groups:

Aggregation with FlowGroups
===========================

In order to associate aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a ``group_aggregator`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`.
By default, no aggregation takes place for a :py:class:`FlowGroup`.

.. note::

>     Currently, **signac-flow** only allows single :class:`~flow.aggregator` per group, i.e., all the operations present in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will be using the same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    All the operations in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will use the same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object provided to the group's ``group_aggregator`` parameter.
```

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    group = Project.make_group('agg-group', group_aggregator=aggregator())

    @group
    @aggregator()
    @Project.operation
    def op1(*jobs):
        pass

    @group
    @Project.operation
    def op2(*jobs):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

> In the above example, when the group ``agg-group`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o agg-group``, all the jobs in the project are passed as arbitrary arguments for both, ``op1`` and ``op2``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example, when the group ``agg-group`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o agg-group``, all the jobs in the project are passed as positional arguments for both ``op1`` and ``op2``.
```

> But if ``op2`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o op2``, only a single job is passed as an argument because no :class:`~flow.aggregator` is associated with the operation function ``op2``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If ``op2`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o op2``, only a single job is passed as an argument because no :class:`~flow.aggregator` is associated with the operation function ``op2``.
```

.. _aggregation:

===========
Aggregation
===========

This chapter provides information about the passing aggregates of jobs to operation functions.

.. _aggregator_definition:

aggregator
==========

An :class:`~flow.aggregator` is used as a decorator for operation functions which accept a variable number of positional arguments, ``*jobs``.
The argument ``*jobs`` is unpacked into an *aggregate*, defined as an ordered tuple of jobs.
See also the Python documentation about :ref:`argument unpacking <python:tut-unpacking-arguments>`.

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    @aggregator()
    @Project.operation
    def op1(*jobs):
        print("Number of jobs in aggregate:", len(jobs))

    @Project.operation
    def op2(job):
        pass

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        Project().main()

If :class:`~flow.aggregator` is used with the default arguments, it will create a single aggregate containing all the jobs present in the project.

> In the example above, ``op1`` is an *aggregate operation* where all the jobs present in the project are passed as a variable number of positional arguments (via ``*jobs``), while ``op2`` is a normal operation where only a single job is passed as an argument.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the example above, ``op1`` is an *aggregate operation* where all the jobs present in the project are passed as a variable number of positional arguments (via ``*jobs``), while ``op2`` is an operation where only a single job is passed as an argument.

.. tip:

    The concept of aggregation might be easier to understand if one realizes that "normal" operation functions are equivalent to aggregate-operations-functions with an aggregate group size of one.
```
I don't like the distinction between "aggregate" and "normal" operation functions as it implies that aggregate operations are somehow not normal. However, that's not the case. Every operation function is an aggregate operation function, just that "normal operations" are in the limit of aggregate size one. I already explained previously in the context of documenting "groups": It is important to not introduce special cases, but instead try to relate the concepts to each other in a logical way.

- For a user it is easier to make the transfer from "normal" operations to operation groups, when they realize that each operation constitutes an operation group with a single entry.
- Similarly, I believe that a user will have an easier time to understand the aggregate-concept, when they realize that "normal operation functions" are aggregate operation functions of size 1.

In summary: in my view all operation functions are in principle the same, just by default they form a group of size 1 and an aggregate of size 1.

Reviewer 3: I agree with this approach. I will leave this comment thread open until I have a chance to review again and see if there are other instances of this distinction. If this is the only place, we can just commit the suggested change.

Reviewer 3: @csadorf Do you want to make an section that explicitly describes your point about all operations acting with aggregation in the limit of one job? I think that could strengthen the docs.

Reviewer 3: > Do you want to make an section that explicitly describes your point about all operations acting with aggregation in the limit of one job?

I re-read the original comment. The suggestion posted by @csadorf includes exactly the language that I was hoping to add. Somehow I missed that the first time. 😅

.. note::

    For an aggregate operation, all conditions like :class:`~flow.FlowProject.pre` or :class:`~flow.FlowProject.post`, callable directives, and other features are required to take the same number of jobs as the operation as arguments.

.. _types_of_aggregation:

Types of Aggregation
====================

> Currently, **signac-flow** allows users to aggregate jobs by:
> 
> - Grouping them on state point key, an iterable of state point keys whose values define the groupings, or an arbitrary callable of :class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job`.
> - Generating aggregates of a given size.
> - Using custom aggregator function when greater flexibility is needed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Currently, **signac-flow** allows users to aggregate jobs in the following way:

- _All jobs_: All of the project's jobs are passed to the operation function.
- _Group by state point key(s)_: The aggregates are grouped by one or more state point keys.
- _Group by arbitrary key-function_: The aggregates are grouped by keys determined by a key-function that expects an instance of :class:`~.signac.contrib.job.Job` and return the grouping key.
- Grouping into aggregates of a specific size.
- Using a completely custom aggregator function when even greater flexibility is needed.
```

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupby("temperature")
    @Project.operation
    def op3(*jobs):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will be aggregated based on the state point key ``"temperature"``.
So, all the jobs having the same value of **temperature** in their state point will be aggregated together.

Groups Of
---------

:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` allows users to aggregate jobs by generating aggregates of a given size.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2)
    @Project.operation
    def op4(job1, job2=None):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated in groups of 2 and hence, up to two jobs will be passed as arguments at once.

.. note::

    In case the number of jobs in the project in this example is odd, there will be one aggregate containing only a single job.
    In general, the last aggregate from :class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` will contain the remaining jobs if the aggregate size does not evenly divide the number of jobs in the project.

>     Users should be careful while passing non-default arguments in an *aggregate operation*.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    If a remainder is expected and valid, users should make sure that the operation function can be called with the reduced number of arguments (e.g. by using `*jobs*` or providing default arguments as shown above).
```

In the example above, ``op1`` is an *aggregate operation* where all the jobs present in the project are passed as a variable number of positional arguments (via ``*jobs``), while ``op2`` is a normal operation where only a single job is passed as an argument.

.. note::

    For an aggregate operation, all conditions like :class:`~flow.FlowProject.pre` or :class:`~flow.FlowProject.post`, callable directives, and other features are required to take the same number of jobs as the operation as arguments.

.. _types_of_aggregation:

Types of Aggregation
====================

Currently, **signac-flow** allows users to aggregate jobs in the following ways:

- *All jobs*: All of the project's jobs are passed to the operation function.
- *Group by state point key(s)*: The aggregates are grouped by one or more state point keys.
- *Group by arbitrary key function*: The aggregates are grouped by keys determined by a key-function that expects an instance of :class:`~.signac.contrib.job.Job` and return the grouping key.
- Grouping into aggregates of a specific size.
- Using a completely custom aggregator function when even greater flexibility is needed.

Group By
--------

> :class:`~flow.aggregator.groupby` allows users to aggregate jobs by grouping them on state point key, an iterable of state point keys whose values define the groupings, or an arbitrary callable of :class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupby` allows users to aggregate jobs by grouping them by a state point key, an iterable of state point keys whose values define the groupings, or an arbitrary callable of :class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job`.
```

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupby("temperature")
    @Project.operation
    def op3(*jobs):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will be aggregated based on the state point key ``"temperature"``.
So, all the jobs having the same value of **temperature** in their state point will be aggregated together.

Groups Of
---------

:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` allows users to aggregate jobs by generating aggregates of a given size.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2)
    @Project.operation
    def op4(job1, job2=None):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated in groups of 2 and hence, up to two jobs will be passed as arguments at once.

.. note::

    In case the number of jobs in the project in this example is odd, there will be one aggregate containing only a single job.
    In general, the last aggregate from :class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` will contain the remaining jobs if the aggregate size does not evenly divide the number of jobs in the project.

>     If a remainder is expected and valid, users should make sure that the operation function can be called with the reduced number of arguments (e.g. by using `*jobs*` or providing default arguments as shown above).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If a remainder is expected and valid, users should make sure that the operation function can be called with the reduced number of arguments (e.g. by using ``*jobs`` or providing default arguments as shown above).
```

Sorting jobs for aggregation
----------------------------

Aggregators allow users to sort the jobs before creating aggregates with the ``sort_by`` parameter.
The sorting order can be defined with the ``sort_ascending`` parameter.
By default, when no ``sort_by`` parameter is specified, the order of the jobs will be decided by the iteration order of the **signac** project.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2, sort_by='temperature', sort_ascending=False)
    @Project.operation
    def op5(*jobs):
        pass

.. note::

    In the above example, all the jobs will be sorted by the state point parameter ``"temperature"`` in descending order and then be aggregated as groups of 2.

Selecting jobs for aggregation
------------------------------

> **signac-flow** allows users to selectively choose which jobs to pass into operation functions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**signac-flow** allows users to selectively choose which jobs to pass into operation functions.
This can be used to generate aggregates from only the selected jobs, excluding any jobs that do not meet the selection criteria.
```

The aggregate id is sensitive to the order of the jobs in the aggregate.

.. note::

    The id of an aggregate containing one job is that job's id.

In order to distinguish between aggregate id and a job id, for an aggregate of more than one job the aggregate id of that aggregate will always have a prefix ``agg-``.

Users can generate the aggregate id of an aggregate using :meth:`flow.get_aggregate_id`.

.. tip::

    Users can also pass an aggregate id to the ``--job-id`` command-line flag provided by **signac-flow** in ``run``, ``submit``, and ``exec``.

.. _aggregation_with_flow_groups:

Aggregation with FlowGroups
===========================

In order to associate aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a ``group_aggregator`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`.
By default, no aggregation takes place for a :py:class:`FlowGroup`.

.. note::

    All the operations in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will use the same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object provided to the group's ``group_aggregator`` parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

>     group = Project.make_group('agg-group', group_aggregator=aggregator())

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    group = Project.make_group("agg-group", group_aggregator=aggregator())
```

Users can generate the aggregate id of an aggregate using :meth:`flow.get_aggregate_id`.

.. tip::

    Users can also pass an aggregate id to the ``--job-id`` command-line flag provided by **signac-flow** in ``run``, ``submit``, and ``exec``.

.. _aggregation_with_flow_groups:

Aggregation with FlowGroups
===========================

In order to associate aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a ``group_aggregator`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`.
By default, no aggregation takes place for a :py:class:`FlowGroup`.

.. note::

    All the operations in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will use the same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object provided to the group's ``group_aggregator`` parameter.

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    group = Project.make_group('agg-group', group_aggregator=aggregator())

    @group
    @aggregator()
    @Project.operation
    def op1(*jobs):
        pass

    @group
    @Project.operation
    def op2(*jobs):
        pass

>     if __name__ == '__main__':

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    if __name__ == "__main__":
```

        Project().main()

In the above example, when the group ``agg-group`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o agg-group``, all the jobs in the project are passed as positional arguments for both ``op1`` and ``op2``.

> If ``op2`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o op2``, only a single job is passed as an argument because no :class:`~flow.aggregator` is associated with the operation function ``op2``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If ``op1`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o op1``, all the jobs in the project are passed as positional arguments because a :class:`~flow.aggregator` is associated with the operation function ``op1`` (separately from the aggregator used for ``agg-group``).
If ``op2`` is executed using ``python project.py run -o op2``, only a single job is passed as an argument because no :class:`~flow.aggregator` is associated with the operation function ``op2``.
```

.. _aggregation:

===========
Aggregation
===========

This chapter provides information about passing aggregates of jobs to operation functions.

.. _aggregator_definition:

aggregator
==========

An :class:`~flow.aggregator` is used as a decorator for operation functions which accept a variable number of positional arguments, ``*jobs``.
The argument ``*jobs`` is unpacked into an *aggregate*, defined as an ordered tuple of jobs.
See also the Python documentation about :ref:`argument unpacking <python:tut-unpacking-arguments>`.

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

    @aggregator()
    @Project.operation
    def op1(*jobs):
        print("Number of jobs in aggregate:", len(jobs))

    @Project.operation
    def op2(job):
        pass

>     if __name__ == '__main__':

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    if __name__ == "__main__":
```

    @Project.operation
    def op3(*jobs):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will be aggregated based on the state point key ``"temperature"``.
So, all the jobs having the same value of **temperature** in their state point will be aggregated together.

Groups Of
---------

:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` allows users to aggregate jobs by generating aggregates of a given size.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2)
    @Project.operation
    def op4(job1, job2=None):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated in groups of 2 and hence, up to two jobs will be passed as arguments at once.

.. note::

    In case the number of jobs in the project in this example is odd, there will be one aggregate containing only a single job.
    In general, the last aggregate from :class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` will contain the remaining jobs if the aggregate size does not evenly divide the number of jobs in the project.
    If a remainder is expected and valid, users should make sure that the operation function can be called with the reduced number of arguments (e.g. by using ``*jobs`` or providing default arguments as shown above).

> 

Reviewer 3: We could add more examples for some or all of the following:
- *Group by state point keys*: The aggregates are grouped by multiple state point keys.
- *Group by arbitrary key function*: The aggregates are grouped by keys determined by a key-function that expects an instance of :class:`~.signac.contrib.job.Job` and return the grouping key.
- Using a completely custom aggregator function when even greater flexibility is needed.

Reviewer 3: I created a new issue for this.

Sorting jobs for aggregation
----------------------------

Aggregators allow users to sort the jobs before creating aggregates with the ``sort_by`` parameter.
The sorting order can be defined with the ``sort_ascending`` parameter.
By default, when no ``sort_by`` parameter is specified, the order of the jobs will be decided by the iteration order of the **signac** project.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2, sort_by="temperature", sort_ascending=False)
    @Project.operation
    def op5(*jobs):
        pass

.. note::

    In the above example, all the jobs will be sorted by the state point parameter ``"temperature"`` in descending order and then be aggregated as groups of 2.

Selecting jobs for aggregation
------------------------------

**signac-flow** allows users to selectively choose which jobs to pass into operation functions.
This can be used to generate aggregates from only the selected jobs, excluding any jobs that do not meet the selection criteria.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator(select=lambda job: job.sp.temperature > 0)
    @Project.operation
    def op6(*jobs):
        pass

.. _aggregate_id:

> Aggregate ID

Reviewer 3: Hmm. I don't think we capitalize "id" anywhere else in the docs so it feels weird to do that here. We aren't using title case consistently in the section headers of this page (e.g. "Selecting jobs for aggregation" is not title case, while "Groups Of" is using title case). On closer inspection, we're inconsistent about capitalization in section headings across the entirety of the signac documentation. I don't know what to do here.

Reviewer 3: Created #147 to address this.

============

Similar to the concept of a job id, an aggregate id is a unique hash identifying an aggregate of jobs.
The aggregate id is sensitive to the order of the jobs in the aggregate.

.. note::

    The id of an aggregate containing one job is that job's id.

> In order to distinguish between aggregate id and a job id, for an aggregate of more than one job the aggregate id of that aggregate will always have a prefix ``agg-``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to distinguish between an aggregate id and a job id, the id of aggregates with more than one job will always have a prefix ``agg-``.
```

Users can generate the aggregate id of an aggregate using :meth:`flow.get_aggregate_id`.

.. tip::

    Users can also pass an aggregate id to the ``--job-id`` command-line flag provided by **signac-flow** in ``run``, ``submit``, and ``exec``.

.. _aggregation_with_flow_groups:

Aggregation with FlowGroups
===========================

> In order to associate aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a ``group_aggregator`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In order to associate an aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a ``group_aggregator`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`.
```

====================

Currently, **signac-flow** allows users to aggregate jobs by:

- Grouping them on state point key, an iterable of state point keys whose values define the
  groupings, or an arbitrary callable of :class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job`.
- Generating aggregates of a given size.
- Using custom aggregator function when greater flexibility is needed.

Group By
---------

:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupby` allows users to aggregate jobs by grouping them on
state point key, an iterable of state point keys whose values define the groupings,
or an arbitrary callable of :class:`~signac.contrib.job.Job`.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupby('temperature')
    @Project.operation
    def op3(*jobs):
        pass

In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated based on the state point **temperature**.
So, all the jobs having the same value of **temperature** in their state point will be aggregated together.

Groups Of
---------

:class:`~flow.aggregator.groupsof` allows users to aggregate jobs by generating aggregates of a given size.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator.groupsof(2)
    @Project.operation
    def op4(job1, job2):
        pass

> In the above example, the jobs will get aggregated in groups of 2 and hence, only two jobs will

Author: I think you're right. In this case, "up to two" will be more appropriate.

be passed as parameters at once.

.. note::

    In case the number of jobs in the project is odd, there will be one aggregate containing only a single

>     job and hence users should be careful while defining the parameters for an *aggregate operation*.

Author: Since in the above example the parity of total jobs is not defined, I think it'll be more appropriate to include this in the above example itself

>     job and hence users should be careful while defining the parameters for an *aggregate operation*.

Author: Tried addressing here: https://github.com/glotzerlab/signac-docs/pull/122/files#diff-d053cd842dd6fe746188c4339762f7e336b763b94d513473d65900b9836a09f0R83

Sorting jobs for aggregation
----------------------------

**signac-flow** allows users to define the sorting order of jobs before creating the aggregates with the
help of ``sort_by`` parameter and the sorting order can be defined with the help of ``sort_ascending`` parameter.

.. code-block:: python

>     @aggregator.groupsof(2, sort_by='temperature', sort_ascending=False)

Reviewer 4: I would maybe suggest to rename `sort_ascending` to `sort_reverse` to be closer to the API of the [standard `sorted()` function](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#sorted).

Reviewer 4: @bdice What do you think?

Author: @bdice this seems like an API change. What do you propose here? I think since we've not released aggregation yet, this can be done.

Reviewer: Although this is not a question for me, from a user perspective I guess `sort_ascending` is more descriptive. If we use `sort_reverse`, I guess we still need to point out that it follows the standard `sorted()` convention, assuming not everyone knows what `sorted` does exactly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    @aggregator.groupsof(2, sort_by="temperature", sort_ascending=False)
```

Reviewer 4: Well, the feature is released now, so we just go with whatever the API is now, right?

    @Project.operation
    def op5(job1, job2):
        pass

.. note::

    In the above example, all the jobs will be sorted by the state point parameter ``temperature`` in descending
    order and then be aggregated as groups of 2.

Selecting jobs for aggregation
------------------------------

> **signac-flow** allows users to selectively choose which jobs to pass into operation functions.

Reviewer 4: Missing empty line.

.. code-block:: python

    @aggregator(select=lambda job: job.sp.temperature > 0)
    @Project.operation
    def op6(job1, job2):
        pass

.. _aggregate_id:

Aggregate ID
============

Similar to the concept of a job id, an aggregate id is a unique hash identifying an aggregate of jobs.

> The aggregate id is sensitive to the order of the jobs in the aggregate

Reviewer 4: So what is the default order then? Should be documented here.

Author: Tried addressing here: https://github.com/glotzerlab/signac-docs/pull/122/files#diff-d053cd842dd6fe746188c4339762f7e336b763b94d513473d65900b9836a09f0R89

.. note::

    The id of an aggregate containing one job is that job's id.

In order to distinguish between aggregate id and a job id, for an aggregate of more than one job
the aggregate id of that aggregate will always have a prefix ``agg-``.

Users can generate the aggregate id of an aggregate using :meth:`flow.get_aggregate_id`.

.. tip::

    Users can also pass an aggregate id to the ``--job-id`` command-line flag provided by **signac-flow**
    in ``run``, ``submit``, and ``exec``.

.. _aggregation_with_flow_groups:

Aggregation with FlowGroups
===========================

In order to associate aggregator object with a :py:class:`FlowGroup`, **signac-flow** provides a
``aggregator_obj`` parameter in :meth:`~flow.FlowProject.make_group`. By default, no aggregation takes
place for a :py:class:`FlowGroup`.

.. note::

>     Currently, **signac-flow** only allows single :class:`~flow.aggregator` per group, i.e. all the operations present

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Currently, **signac-flow** only allows single :class:`~flow.aggregator` per group, i.e., all the operations present
```

>     in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will be using a same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    in a :py:class:`FlowGroup` will be using the same :class:`~flow.aggregator` object.
```

.. code-block:: python

    # project.py
    from flow import FlowProject, aggregator

    class Project(FlowProject):
        pass

>     group = Project.make_group('agg-group', aggregator_obj=aggregator())

Reviewer 4: I think the example would be easier to follow if you provided an implementation for such an aggregator class.

Author: @csadorf, I am not sure I completely follow what you say. Can you please clarify?
